SAM THOROGOOD: Hey, everyone.
It's Sam here.
On this episode of the
Santa Tracker series,
I'm going to talk a little
bit about performance
and performance in terms
of the DIVs and the layers
that we see on the page
when we look at it.
So let's have a quick
look at the site itself.
So what we see here is a
bunch of DIVs and layers.
If you bring up
the Rendering tab
in the bottom of
your DevTools, you'll
see we have paint flashing
and layered borders turned on.
So that's the effects you see.
The brown outlines
are the layers
that the GPU knows
about, and the green
is where the GPU is
currently drawing.
And so there's a lot
of stuff going on.
Santa is a complicated site,
and we do render things
as we go along.
This game, for instance
is causing a few redraws.
And you can kind of
see some of our effects
don't have drawing cost at all.
For instance, this little cute
scene of reindeers down here--
they don't actually need
to be redrawn or reframed.
We've done some
work to make sure
that they're only happening in
the GPU, which is pretty cool.
But of course, for
our countdown timer,
we quite literally draw a
new number every second,
which makes sense.
So what we're trying to do is
reduce the number of layers
that we're drawing.
So if you see in
the example, you'll
see that the second
counter is actually
highlighting every frame.
And we don't really know why.
So let's have a look at that.
So this little counter
here is our problem.
We've also got
this DIV at the top
with this little green effect
up here, which is actually
related.
And I'll explain why
in just a second.
So if you go to
our source code--
and we can actually
see that I've
kind of commented things
out rather than typing it
in on the spot--
we want to change
a couple of things.
So firstly, this element only
takes up about 70 pixels high.
And that's fine, right?
That's how you want
to use the element.
But note that it actually
gets bigger around the top
and bottom because we have this
effect of this number appearing
and disappearing as
the number changes.
So what we're going to do--
and this is in SAS, so you
can see some dollar sign
variables here--
is we're going to
set the overflow.
So that overflow is
going to be the size
of the element in half.
So we want to make this element
bigger by half on both sides.
So what we can do is
set a negative margin
to make the element
bigger instead of padding
smaller again.
What that means is that we can
force the GPU to make a bigger
layer, which is really
good because it'll then
contain our elements that
move up and down as we count.
We've also set a z-index
and set the overflow hidden.
Because we can now
tell the browser,
hey, this layout
which is now bigger
really doesn't have
anything outside it.
Whereas previously,
our core layer actually
couldn't be restricted.
It overflowed.
Those things did expand
out of its space.
So now if we hit Save
and hopefully Refresh,
it should happen automatically.
We'll see that actually we've
got this bigger element here.
But we've still got
some problems here.
This is still flashing
for some reason
we don't quite understand.
What's actually happening
here is this minutes
and seconds and hours thing--
that layer is on top of the
numbers, not below the numbers.
And that sounds a
bit counterintuitive
because surely the numbers are
kind of below the text there.
But because they're
in the wrong way,
the browser thinks
that it needs to redraw
that text every frame,
which isn't quite true.
So what we're going
to do is go on here
and say this holder,
which contains our number,
let's put it on top.
Let's make its
z-index much higher.
So this is 100 here, which
is just a random value.
Because we're in a
stacking context,
it doesn't really
matter what we choose.
So if we refresh the page-- and
that happens automatically--
you'll see that now that number
is just ticking up on its own.
So that's pretty much all
I wanted to cover today.
Hopefully what you've learnt is
a little bit about how to trick
the browser into making bigger
DIVs that are GPU layers
and basically using things like
z-index to basically convince
the browser to only draw
the bits you care about.
So thanks for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
Thanks for watching.
You can subscribe to the
Google Chrome Developer Channel
down here, or check out some
other great videos along here.
[BELLS JINGLING]